docs: new tutorial validation of messages/events (#1061)
asyncapi/website: pages/docs/tutorials/validate-events.md

---
title: messages/events validation

> description: In this tutorial, you'll learn how to validate messages/events using AsyncAPI.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: In this tutorial, you'll learn how to validate AsyncAPI messages (events).

```

weight: 130
---

# Introduction

> In this tutorial, you'll learn how to validate messages/events which are sent to your application using AsyncAPI.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this tutorial, you'll learn how to validate messages (events) that are sent to your AsyncAPI application.

```

> # Background Context

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Background context

```

Please remember we use sentence capitalization in headers.

> A message broker is software that enables applications, systems, and services to communicate with each other and exchange information, in this case messages/events.

Reviewer 2: this is a context about brokers, but article is about events validation, so IMHO context should be only provided in context of events validation. Kinda reference you the guide you are working on. And explanation that in this tutorial you can see an example of validation that happens in application runtime

Author: I made the changes in background context

You will be using [Eclipse Mosquitto](https://mosquitto.org/) broker. The MQTT protocol provides a lightweight method of carrying out messaging using a publish/subscribe model.
You will be using MQTT client that runs an MQTT library and connects to an MQTT broker over a network. Here publishers and subscribers are MQTT clients. The publisher and subscriber labels refer to whether the client is currently publishing messages or subscribed to receive messages.

In previous tutorial, you have generated your application using [AsyncAPI Generator](https://github.com/asyncapi/generator) Node.js template.
Now you will be validating the messages/events which you will be sending to your application using Mosquitto broker and MQTT client.

> 

Reviewer: @starlightknown Hey, you're missing the `Installation Guide` section. Please go ahead and add that so Lukasz can make his review. :)

Author: Hey @alequetzalli I thought of adding it but since this is the continuation of previous tutorial, we don't need any extra things to install here. Let me know your thoughts

Reviewer: Nope, each tutorial needs to stand alone on its own. I wrote about this in another PR but now I can't remember in which one I left long comment 😅😂😂

Never assume that a user is going to follow a certain order in how they read documentation and never assume that they will complete tutorials in the order you list them. Each tutorial needs to stand on its own as if no other tutorial existed, which means that each tutorial needs to have its own installation information for whatever the user needs in that particular tutorial.

Author: Okay I'll add that

#  Validate messages
In this step, we will send a message to our application using MQTT broker and check the error logged if we send an invalid message

1. Start your generated application

<CodeBlock language="bash">
{`npm start`}
</CodeBlock>

> 2. Now let's try to send a message:

Reviewer 2: 👏🏼 
love idea with the reference to message payload

<CodeBlock language="bash">
  {`mqtt pub -t 'light/measured' -h 'test.mosquitto.org' -m '{"id": 1, "lumens": "3", "sentAt": "2017-06-07T12:34:32.000Z"}'`}
  </CodeBlock>
  
 Go back to the previous terminal and check if your application logged the streetlight condition you just sent, with errors related to the invalid message.
 

>  <CodeBlock language="yaml">

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
 <CodeBlock language="yaml" highlightedLines={[10,11]}>
```

it will highlight:

```
lumens:
   type: integer
```

but later, as we have bug now 😄

---

> title: messages/events validation

Reviewer 2: I guess we can just stick with one name, `Messages` (upper case) in all documents as they reflect AsyncAPI spec and `message` property that is used there to describe message/event

Reviewer: Love this.

Reviewer: On that note, let's make sure we update the **FILE NAME** in this PR to `message-validation`.

> title: messages/events validation

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: Message validation

```

description: In this tutorial, you'll learn how to validate AsyncAPI messages (events).

weight: 130
---

# Introduction
In this tutorial, you'll learn how to validate messages (events) that are sent to your AsyncAPI application.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

Unnecessary space

# Background context
Message validation can be performed at both the producer and consumer levels. Message validation requires the participation of the producer, consumer, and broker. We will learn how to validate messages at the consumer level by discarding invalid messages based on the parameters provided.

You will be using [Eclipse Mosquitto](https://mosquitto.org/) broker. The MQTT protocol provides a lightweight method of carrying out messaging using a publish/subscribe model.
You will be using MQTT client that runs an MQTT library and connects to an MQTT broker over a network. Here publishers and subscribers are MQTT clients. The publisher and subscriber labels refer to whether the client is currently publishing messages or subscribed to receive messages.

In previous tutorial, you have generated your application using [AsyncAPI Generator](https://github.com/asyncapi/generator) Node.js template.
Now you will be validating the messages/events which you will be sending to your application using Mosquitto broker and MQTT client.

#  Validate messages

> In this step, we will send a message to our application using MQTT broker and check the error logged if we send an invalid message

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this step, we will send a message to our application using an MQTT broker and check the errors logged when you accidentally send an invalid message.

```

> 1. Start your generated application

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Start your generated application.

```

<CodeBlock language="bash">
{`npm start`}
</CodeBlock>

2. Now let's try to send a message:

<CodeBlock language="bash">
  {`mqtt pub -t 'light/measured' -h 'test.mosquitto.org' -m '{"id": 1, "lumens": "3", "sentAt": "2017-06-07T12:34:32.000Z"}'`}
  </CodeBlock>
  
 Go back to the previous terminal and check if your application logged the streetlight condition you just sent, with errors related to the invalid message.
 
 <CodeBlock language="yaml" highlightedLines={[10,11]}>
  {`  message:
        name: lumensInfo
        payload:
          type: object
          properties:
            id:
              type: integer
              minimum: 0
              description: Id of the streetlight.
            lumens:
              type: integer
              minimum: 0
              description: Light intensity measured in lumens.`}
  </CodeBlock>
  

> Here, you can see that the property `lumens` has type `integer` but you are sending a message with type `string`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here, you can see that the property `lumens` has type `integer`, but you are sending a message with type `string`.

```

3. Send a correct message to your application:

<CodeBlock language="bash">
  {`mqtt pub -t 'light/measured' -h 'test.mosquitto.org' -m '{"id": 1, "lumens": 3, "sentAt": "2017-06-07T12:34:32.000Z"}'`}
  </CodeBlock>

You can see that your generated application received a message in the terminal:

<CodeBlock language="bash">
  {`light/measured was received:
{ id: 1, lumens: 3, sentAt: '2017-06-07T12:34:32.000Z' }`}
  </CodeBlock>

This indicates that your message is valid and it is recieved by the application correctly.

# Summary 

> In this tutorial, you learnt how to connect your generated application to MQTT broker,send messages through it,how to identify when an invalid message is sent to your application and how you can correct the invalid message. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this tutorial, you learned how to connect your generated application to an MQTT broker, send messages through it, how to identify when an invalid message is sent to your application, and how you can correct the invalid message. 

```
